[TT-15640] Reworked Auth Token and added Certificate-Token binding (#1518)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: api-management/authentication/auth-token.mdx

- an allowable clock skew

## Using Custom Auth Tokens

If you have your own identity provider you may want to use that to generate and manage the access tokens, rather than having Tyk generate the tokens. You can use the `POST /tyk/keys/{keyID}` endpoint in the [Tyk Gateway API](/tyk-gateway-api) to import those tokens to Tyk, off-loading access control, quotas and rate limiting from your own application.

## Using Tyk Dashboard to Configure Auth Token

Using the Tyk Dashboard, you can configure the Auth Token authentication method from the Server section in the API Designer by enabling **Authentication** and selecting **Auth Token** from the drop-down:

<img src="/img/api-management/security/auth-token-method.png" alt="Configuring the Auth Token method" />

- select the location(s) where Tyk should look for the token
- provide the key name for each location (we prefill the default `Authorization` for the *header* location, but you can replace this if required)
- select **Strip authorization data** to remove the auth token locations from the request prior to proxying to the upstream, as described [here](/api-management/client-authentication#managing-authorization-data)

> - optionally select **Enable client certificate** to enable [Dynamic mTLS](/basic-config-and-security/security/mutual-tls/client-mtls#dynamic-mtls) for the API, so the client can provide a certificate in place of the token

Reviewer: maybe also here note that from 5.12 this is not longer how to configure dynamic mtls?

Author: This is covered in the main mTLS/certificates PR :)

<img src="/img/api-management/security/auth-token-mtls-bind-cert1.png" alt="Optionally bind a client certificate to the API Key" />

If you select this option, you can then select the client certificate to bind to the new token. You can choose from the existing client certificates in the Tyk Certificate Store or, if required, you can upload new certificates (in PEM format). Tyk will register these within the Tyk Certificate Store so that they are available for use.

Select **Attach Certificate**.

<img src="/img/api-management/security/auth-token-mtls-bind-cert2.png" alt="Uploading a client certificate to bind to the API Key" />

The certificate will be added to a list of bound certificates.

<img src="/img/api-management/security/auth-token-mtls-bind-cert3.png" alt="The new cert is shown in the list of bound certificates" />

You can optionally add more certificates, or proceed to issue the key by selecting **Create Key**.

You can add and remove certificate bindings for existing tokens from the **Update Key** screen:

<img src="/img/api-management/security/auth-token-mtls-update-key.png" alt="The new cert is shown in the list of bound certificates" />

> When a client certificate is bound to a token, if it is not already included in the static allow list for the API(s) that the token is authorised to access, Tyk will automatically add it to the appropriate allow lists:

Author: ```suggestion
<Note>

    **Note**

    Binding a certificate to an Auth Token does not automatically add that certificate to the static allow list for the API(s) that the token is authorised to access. When a request is made using the token, the presented client certificate will be checked against the allow list after the mTLS handshake has completed and before the binding is checked. Authentication will fail if the certificate is not in the allow list.
</Note>
```
